# Detection-of-Multiple-Sclerosis-using-Deep-Learning

Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) synthesis has gained attention due to its diverse applications in medical diagnostics. And so, in the detection of the white matter MS lesions of the brain or spinal cord, MRIs are considered to be examined. Researchers have found that MS is one of the most common primary neurological disorders in young adults. The detection of MS is of major importance in medical diagnostics at present. As of yet, there is little to no cure for MS. However, early treatments can improve recovery from attacks and control the symptoms. Detecting white matter lesions using deep learning from brain MRIs may lead to improvement of understanding the progression of the disease. Deep learning is considered the most assured and well-known ML technique for radiology in particular. Being a subset of Machine Learning, Deep Learning can strengthen imaging diagnosis processes.

Multiple Sclerosis is a chronic immune disease of the central nervous system which appears in areas of the brain and spinal cord with the occurrence of focal regions of inflammatory demyelination. Myelin sheath plays a significant role in signal transmission between neurons. Disruption of the structure of the myelin sheath affects the functioning of the organ. It can affect the visual system and create hindrance in mobility. There is no definite treatment for MS but early diagnosis and treatment can decrease the progression of the disease. After following different ways of detection like the evoked potential test, blood testing, lumbar puncture, etc. manual methods of detecting MS lesions from MRI results in a decision. MRIs to detect the lesions are used to diagnose the disease and track its progress by clinicians and radiologists, which is a very time-consuming process and suffers from variability. Detection of MS lesions from MRI may be misleading as it is a sensitive method itself. So it has become a necessity to automatize the process. Deep learning provides a significant contribution to medical diagnosis. We aimed to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy using a deep learning algorithm in detecting multiple sclerosis. Medical image processing through AI may bring a better solution by addressing this problem.

We aim to introduce an automatic intelligent system of MS lesion detection. Because manual analysis is time-consuming, inefficient, and expensive. Deep Learning and image processing techniques have the capability of medical research for clinical studies on a large-scale. The objective of our approach is to develop a neural network-based decision system that detects white matter MS lesions with a high de- gree of accuracy. Therefore, we introduce an efficient technique to detect MS lesions from MRIs of MS patients.
